---
title: "Price Car Prediction using Machine Learning"
date: 2023-05-29T23:15:00+07:00
slug: price-car-prediction
category: projects
summary:
description:
cover:
  image:
  alt:
  caption:
  relative: true
showtoc: true
draft: false
---

# Dataset Description

This dataset contains information about the prices of different sports cars from various manufacturers. The dataset includes the make and model of the car, the year of production, the engine size, the horsepower, the torque, the 0-60 MPH time, and the price in USD. The dataset is useful for analyzing the prices of different sports cars and identifying trends in the market.
Columns
1. Car Make: The make of the sports car, which represents the brand or company that produced the car. Examples of car makes in this dataset include Porsche, Lamborghini, Ferrari, Audi, and McLaren.
2. Car Model: The model of the sports car, which represents the specific version or variant of the car produced by the manufacturer. Examples of car models in this dataset include 911, Huracan, 488 GTB, R8, 720S, M8, AMG GT, Corvette, Mustang Shelby GT500, and GT-R Nismo.
3. Year: The year of production of the sports car, which indicates the model year when the car was first introduced or made available for purchase.
4. Engine Size (L): The size of the sports car's engine in liters, which represents the volume of the engine's cylinders. A larger engine size typically indicates higher power and performance. Engine sizes in this dataset range from 2.0L to 8.0L, with some cars having electric motors instead.
5. Horsepower: The horsepower of the sports car, which represents the power output of the car's engine. Higher horsepower typically indicates faster acceleration and higher top speed. Horsepower values in this dataset range from 300 to 1479.
6. Torque (lb-ft): The torque of the sports car in pound-feet, which represents the rotational force generated by the engine. Higher torque values typically indicate stronger acceleration and better handling. Torque values in this dataset range from 270 to 1180.
7. 0-60 MPH Time (seconds): The time it takes for the sports car to accelerate from 0 to 60 miles per hour, which is a common measure of acceleration and performance. Lower 0-60 MPH times typically indicate faster acceleration and better performance. 0-60 MPH times in this dataset range from 1.85 to 5.3 seconds.
8. Price (in USD): The price of the sports car in US dollars, which represents the cost of purchasing the car. Prices in this dataset range from $25,000 to $3,000,000.

# Full Code
[Explore the full code](https://github.com/saprilianhd/Data-Science/blob/main/Car_Prediction.ipynb)
